Today I was talking to James Lawrence
from Rocket Agency in Australia. He was
he had me on his podcast. We had a we
had a great chat. I'm sure the podcast
will come out soon and he told me about
this research from a few years ago was
in the Harvard Business Review about how
B2B buyers buy. And I thought it was
just fascinating because he he quoted
this stat that essentially when they ran
this survey, this is Bane and Google
putting it together that buyers make a
list before they begin their search
process before they go to Google and
start looking at top lists and uh you
know whatever go to chatbt and do their
consideration set ask around they
already 80 to 90% of them already have a
list that of of three usually three
vendors that they are considering. These
are like the the brands in their space,
whether it's an ERP solution or an
audience research tool, you know,
whatever it is they're buying. And 90%
of them choose one of those three that
they started with on day one. Which
means if your brand in B2B is not
already in the publications at the
conferences and events in the sources of
influence that the podcasts and YouTube
channels and you know uh LinkedIn videos
and all all that kind of stuff that your
audience is consuming, you're not going
to be in those three. You won't be in
the consideration set. You will not be
in the 90% of of where people buy. And
so the problem the problem is that when
an agency goes to pitch folks,
especially in B2B, I've seen this a ton
and I've been talking to a bunch of
agency owners about this that they go
and they say, "Hey, our marketing plan
is to get your brand into all the places
that your audience pays attention. These
these YouTube channels, these podcasts,
these events, these publications, these
industry journals, these research uh
areas,
great. Except the client is there like,
"No, I only care about AI. All my golf
buddies are talking about AI. AI is the
future. Get me in chat
GBT. And it's, you know, it's a little
weird. It can be if you're if you're a
little bit of a, you know, realist about
where the numbers are at now. ChatGBT at
the very very maximum is maybe 1% the
size of Google search. It's it's got uh
if you add up all of the uh prompts that
people send it uh you'll get about 5%
but recent research has shown that about
75% of those are for productivity types
of things that you can't do in Google.
So 1%. This is weird. It's like putting
all your paid search money into Bing
instead of Google. But there is another
way. What if instead you do some
jiu-jitsu here as the agency you can say
we're going to get you into AI tools.
We're going to get you into chat GPT.
We're going to make sure that when
relevant questions and prompts are
entered, you are one of the answers.
That's great, says the client. How you
going to do
that? The same thing. It's exactly the
same thing because large language models
are words that frequently come after
other words in trusted documents that
they have indexed for their
models. PR PR is how you get into AI.
You get your brand name mentioned next
to the words and phrases that people
associate you with and you will be in
the model the next time it updates which
can be three, six months, right? It can
take a long time for this to happen, but
it works.